=head1 NAME

tcc - Tiny C Compiler

=head1 SYNOPSIS

usage: tcc [options] [I<infile1> I<infile2>...] [B<-run> I<infile> I<args>...]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

TCC options are a very much like gcc options. The main difference is that TCC
can also execute directly the resulting program and give it runtime
arguments.

Here are some examples to understand the logic:


=over 4


=item C<B<tcc -run a.c>>

Compile F<a.c> and execute it directly


=item C<B<tcc -run a.c arg1>>

Compile a.c and execute it directly. arg1 is given as first argument to
the C<main()> of a.c.


=item C<B<tcc a.c -run b.c arg1>>

Compile F<a.c> and F<b.c>, link them together and execute them. arg1 is given
as first argument to the C<main()> of the resulting program. 


=item C<B<tcc -o myprog a.c b.c>>

Compile F<a.c> and F<b.c>, link them and generate the executable F<myprog>.


=item C<B<tcc -o myprog a.o b.o>>

link F<a.o> and F<b.o> together and generate the executable F<myprog>.


=item C<B<tcc -c a.c>>

Compile F<a.c> and generate object file F<a.o>.


=item C<B<tcc -c asmfile.S>>

Preprocess with C preprocess and assemble F<asmfile.S> and generate
object file F<asmfile.o>.


=item C<B<tcc -c asmfile.s>>

Assemble (but not preprocess) F<asmfile.s> and generate object file
F<asmfile.o>.


=item C<B<tcc -r -o ab.o a.c b.c>>

Compile F<a.c> and F<b.c>, link them together and generate the object file F<ab.o>.


=back


Scripting:

TCC can be invoked from I<scripts>, just as shell scripts. You just
need to add C<#!/usr/local/bin/tcc -run> at the start of your C source:

	
	#!/usr/local/bin/tcc -run
	#include <stdio.h>
	
	int main() 
	{
	    printf("Hello World\n");
	    return 0;
	}


TCC can read C source code from I<standard input> when B<-> is used in 
place of B<infile>. Example:

	
	echo 'main(){puts("hello");}' | tcc -run -


=head1 OPTIONS


=over 4


=item B<-v>

Display current TCC version, increase verbosity.


=item B<-c>

Generate an object file (B<-o> option must also be given).


=item B<-o outfile>

Put object file, executable, or dll into output file F<outfile>.


=item B<-Bdir>

Set the path where the tcc internal libraries can be found (default is
F<PREFIX/lib/tcc>).


=item B<-bench>

Output compilation statistics.


=item B<-run source [args...]>

Compile file I<source> and run it with the command line arguments
I<args>. In order to be able to give more than one argument to a
script, several TCC options can be given I<after> the
B<-run> option, separated by spaces. Example:

	
	tcc "-run -L/usr/X11R6/lib -lX11" ex4.c


In a script, it gives the following header:

	
	#!/usr/local/bin/tcc -run -L/usr/X11R6/lib -lX11
	#include <stdlib.h>
	int main(int argc, char **argv)
	{
	    ...
	}



=back


Preprocessor options:


=over 4


=item B<-Idir>

Specify an additional include path. Include paths are searched in the
order they are specified.

System include paths are always searched after. The default system
include paths are: F</usr/local/include>, F</usr/include>
and F<PREFIX/lib/tcc/include>. (F<PREFIX> is usually
F</usr> or F</usr/local>).


=item B<-Dsym[=val]>

Define preprocessor symbol B<sym> to
val. If val is not present, its value is B<1>. Function-like macros can
also be defined: B<-DF(a)=a+1>


=item B<-Usym>

Undefine preprocessor symbol B<sym>.

=back


Compilation flags:

Note: each of the following warning options has a negative form beginning with
B<-fno->.


=over 4


=item B<-funsigned-char>

Let the C<char> type be unsigned.


=item B<-fsigned-char>

Let the C<char> type be signed.


=item B<-fno-common>

Do not generate common symbols for uninitialized data.


=item B<-fleading-underscore>

Add a leading underscore at the beginning of each C symbol.


=back


Warning options:


=over 4


=item B<-w>

Disable all warnings.


=back


Note: each of the following warning options has a negative form beginning with
B<-Wno->.


=over 4


=item B<-Wimplicit-function-declaration>

Warn about implicit function declaration.


=item B<-Wunsupported>

Warn about unsupported GCC features that are ignored by TCC.


=item B<-Wwrite-strings>

Make string constants be of type C<const char *> instead of C<char
*>.


=item B<-Werror>

Abort compilation if warnings are issued.


=item B<-Wall> 

Activate all warnings, except B<-Werror>, B<-Wunusupported> and
B<-Wwrite-strings>.


=back


Linker options:


=over 4


=item B<-Ldir>

Specify an additional static library path for the B<-l> option. The
default library paths are F</usr/local/lib>, F</usr/lib> and F</lib>.


=item B<-lxxx>

Link your program with dynamic library libxxx.so or static library
libxxx.a. The library is searched in the paths specified by the
B<-L> option.


=item B<-shared>

Generate a shared library instead of an executable (B<-o> option
must also be given).


=item B<-static>

Generate a statically linked executable (default is a shared linked
executable) (B<-o> option must also be given).


=item B<-rdynamic>

Export global symbols to the dynamic linker. It is useful when a library
opened with C<dlopen()> needs to access executable symbols.


=item B<-r>

Generate an object file combining all input files (B<-o> option must
also be given).


=item B<-Wl,-Ttext,address>

Set the start of the .text section to I<address>.


=item B<-Wl,--oformat,fmt>

Use I<fmt> as output format. The supported output formats are:

=over 4


=item C<elf32-i386>

ELF output format (default)

=item C<binary>

Binary image (only for executable output)

=item C<coff>

COFF output format (only for executable output for TMS320C67xx target)

=back



=back


Debugger options:


=over 4


=item B<-g>

Generate run time debug information so that you get clear run time
error messages: C< test.c:68: in function 'test5()': dereferencing
invalid pointer> instead of the laconic C<Segmentation
fault>.


=item B<-b>

Generate additional support code to check
memory allocations and array/pointer bounds. B<-g> is implied. Note
that the generated code is slower and bigger in this case.


=item B<-bt N>

Display N callers in stack traces. This is useful with B<-g> or
B<-b>.


=back


Note: GCC options B<-Ox>, B<-fx> and B<-mx> are
ignored.

=head1 SEE ALSO

gcc(1)

=head1 AUTHOR

Fabrice Bellard

